Hard Trivia:

1.) To the nearest foot, the average human small intestine measures at what length?


2.) The first letter from each of what five words constitute acronym PLUTO when referring to the oil industry?

3.) The United States conducted its first and only nuclear artillery test in what U.S. state in 1953?

4.) What metal constitutes most of a penny?

5.) How many of the five dwarf planets in our solar system consistently orbit inside the orbit of Neptune?

6.) A giant squid features how many appendages?

7.) The name “ambush” refers to what group of jungle animals?

8.) What country produced space travelers known as taikonauts?

9.) Olympus Mons represents the largest volcano in what location?

10.) What lunar phase occurs when more than half of the moon – but less than a full moon – appears in the sky?

11.) Most scholars credit Joseph Henry with the invention of what in 1831?

12.) The name of what disease stems from the medieval Italian for “bad air”?

13.) An orthopedic doctor treats what part of the human body?

14.) What mammal possesses fingerprints closest in shape to those of humans to the point where they appear relatively identical under an electron microscope?

15.) The definition of what metal reads as “a ferrous alloy with a minimum 10% chromium content”?

16.) Nobel Peace Prize creator Alfred Nobel invented what?

17.) Leo Gerstenzang invented Q-tips in what year?

18.) Which one of Snow White’s seven dwarfs most likely suffers from aphasia?

19.) Tails that can grasp or hold objects go by what name?

20.) What sieve-like structure sits in the upper jaw of a plankton-eating whale?

Answers
1.) 17 feet
2.) Pipe-Lines Under the Ocean
3.) Nevada
4.) zinc
5.) one
6.) 10
7.) tigers
8.) China
9.) Mars
10.) gibbous
11.) the telegraph
12.) malaria
13.) its bones
14.) koala
15.) stainless steel
16.) dynamite
17.) 1923
18.) Dopey
19.) prehensile tails
20.) baleen


21. Where in the human body would you find the medulla oblongata?
A. In the brain.

22.What weather phenomenon causes more deaths in the U.S. annually
than any other except lightning?
ANSWER: TORNADOES

23. Multiple Choice: Pollination by birds is called:
w) autogamy
x) ornithophily (pron: or-nith-o-philly)
y) entomophily (pron: ent-eh-mof-illy)
z) anemophily (pron: an-eh-mof-illy)
ANSWER: X -- ORNITHOPHILY

24.Multiple Choice: What percent of fire-related deaths are due to smoke inhalation
rather than burns?
w) 10%
x) 50%
y) 80%
z) 99%
ANSWER: Y -- 80%

25.What U.S. President was recognized as a world authority on American
game animals?
ANSWER: THEODORE ROOSEVELT

26. Multiple Choice: The fastest-running terrestrial animal is:
w) cheetah
x) lion
y) man
z) jaguar
ANSWER: W -- CHEETAH

27. In what country do the greatest number of tornadoes occur?
ANSWER: UNITED STATES

28.Which sea is the saltiest natural lake and is also at the lowest elevation
on the face of the earth?
ANSWER: THE DEAD SEA

29.The scarab, worshipped by the Egyptians, is what type of beetle?
ANSWER: DUNG BEETLE

30.Multiple Choice: As you go down into a well, your weight:
w) increases slightly
x) decreases slightly
y) remains exactly the same
ANSWER: X -- DECREASES SLIGHTLY

31. What invention in about 1450 A.D. revolutionized communication and
the world?
ANSWER: THE PRINTING PRESS

32.What is the name for the new technology whereby a glass fiber carries
as much information as hundreds of copper wires?
ANSWER: FIBER OPTICS (OPTO-ELECTRONICS)

33.What mammal lays eggs?
ANSWER: PLATYPUS

34.Bees must collect nectar from approximately how many flowers to
make 1 pound of honeycomb? Is it:
w) 10 thousand
x) 2 million
y) 20 million
z) 50 million
ANSWER: X -- 20 MILLION

35.What is another name for the Paleolithic Age?
 ANSWER: THE STONE AGE


36.How many time zones are there on Earth?
ANSWER: TWENTY-FOUR

37.: Which prefix is often used with scientific terms to indicate that
something is the same, equal or constant?
w) iso (pron: eye-so)
x) mega
y) meta
z) quasi
ANSWER: W -- ISO

38.; Multiple Choice: The study of phenomena at very low temperatures is called:
w) heat transfer
x) morphology
y) crystallography
z) cryogenics (pron: cry-o-jen-iks)
ANSWER: Z -- CRYOGENICS

39.The study of how people use tools to perform work and how people
physically relate to their working environment is called:
w) engineering
x) ergonomics
y) agronomy
z) physiology
ANSWER: X -- ERGONOMICS

40.What famous scientist and inventor participated in the invention of
the Aqua-Lung?
w) Thomas Edison
x) Isaac Newton
y) Leonardo da Vinci
z) Jacques Cousteau
ANSWER: Z -- JACQUES COUSTEAU

41.Multiple Choice: Superconductivity is a material property associated with:
w) cooling a substance without a phase change
x) frictionless liquid flow
y) a loss of thermal resistance
z) a loss of electrical resistance
ANSWER: Z -- A LOSS OF ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE

42. Multiple Choice: If a metal can be drawn into wires relatively easily it is called:
w) malleable
x) ductile
y) extractive
z) tactile
ANSWER: X -- DUCTILE

43.In which country was a method for making rust-resistant iron
discovered in the fifth century B.C.?
w) Sumeria
x) Egypt
y) India
z) Babylon
ANSWER: Y -- INDIA

44. At room temperature, most elements are in which phase of matter?
w) solid
x) liquid
y) gas
z) plasma
ANSWER: W -- SOLID

45.The science of weights and measures is called:
w) metrology
x) meteorology
y) mineralogy
z) morphology
ANSWER: W -- METROLOGY

46.Water flows through a horizontal pipe at a constant volumetric rate.
At a location where the cross sectional area decreases, the velocity of the fluid:
w) increases
x) decreases
y) stays the same
ANSWER: W -- INCREASES

47. Multiple Choice: The Statue of Liberty is green because of:
w) green stone
x) oxidized brass
y) steel painted green
z) oxidized copper
ANSWER: Z -- OXIDIZED COPPER

48.Which of the following vacuum pumps operates by using a very cold
surface to trap the gases on the cold surface? Is it a:
w) sublimation pump
x) turbo pump
y) cryopump
z) diffusion pump.
ANSWER: Y -- CRYOPUMP

49.The word atom is from a Greek word meaning:
w) small
x) indivisible
y) unseen
z) visible
ANSWER: X -- INDIVISIBLE

50.: Electric power is less expensive at night because:
w) more hydroelectric generation is brought on line at night.
x) there is less demand at night.
y) pollution control is less stringent at night.
z) power plants are more efficient at night.
ANSWER: X -- THERE IS LESS DEMAND AT NIGHT.
