Medium Trivia:
1.What planet’s moons are nearly all named after Shakespearean characters?
Uranus

2.Stratus, Cirrus & Cumulus are names for different types of what?
Clouds

3.Which planet in our solar system are not named after a god or goddess?
Earth

4.What type of number has no factors other than 1 and itself?
Prime numbers

5.A modulator-demodulator is a hardware device better known as what?
Modem

6.When there are two full moons in the same month, what is the second one called?
Blue Moon

7.What is the term for the speed that a rocket needs to be traveling to break free of Earth’s gravity?
Escape Velocity

8.What is the primary unit of temperature measurement in the physical sciences?
Kelvin

9.On the Periodic Table of Elements, Hg is the symbol for what element?
Mercury

10.What is the only modern rock n’ roll song on the Voyager Spacecrafts’ Golden Records?
Johnny B. Goode, by Chuck Berry

11.In the human body, what is the hallux?
The big toe

12.What is the most abundant chemical element in the Universe?
Hydrogen

13.A temperature reading of -459.67 degrees Fahrenheit or -273.15 degrees Celsius, is known as what?
Absolute Zero

14.The change in a wave’s frequency when the source and observer are in motion relative to one another is known as what?
The Doppler Effect (Doppler Shift)

15.Who invented the first alternating current (AC) induction motor?
Nikola Tesla

16.The process of making cow’s milk safe for human consumption is called what?
Pasteurization

17.The scientific unit named after Sir Isaac Newton measures what?
Force

18.How many electrons does a hydrogen atom have?
One

19.What is the mathematical formula for Newton’s Second Law of Motion?
F=ma

20.What are the first four digits of Pi?
3.141

21.Where did a robot named Spirit remain operational over 2000 sols past its planned 90-sol mission?
Hemoglobin

22.What is the name for the pigment found in your skin and hair that gives them color?
Melanin

23.What is the only state that can be typed on one row of keys on a QWERTY keyboard?
Alaska

24.What does the online acronym SMH stand for?
Shaking my head

25.When referring to cables used to transmit audio/video, what does HDMI stand for?
High-Definition Multimedia Interface

26.Able to be seen from outer space, what is Earth’s largest living structure?
The Great Barrier Reef

27.What common expression is used to refer to the horseshoe shaped zone found 
along the Pacific rim where approximately 90% of the world’s earthquakes occur?
Ring of Fire

28.What was the name of the first manned mission to land on the moon?
Apollo 11

29.What is the name for the branch of mathematics dealing with lengths and angles of triangles.
Trigonometry

30.Which U.S. President made the first telephone call to the moon?
Richard Nixon

31.What is the name for the longest side of a right triangle?
Hypotenuse

32.What common kitchen item is made up of sodium and chlorine atoms?
Salt

33.In geometry, how many sides are on a heptagon?
Seven

34.What is the name for the specialized nerve cell that 
transmits information chemically and electrically throughout the body?
Neuron

35.When found on a vehicle’s speedometer, what do the letters MPH stand for?
Miles Per hour

36.What was the name given to the sheep that was the first mammal cloned from an adult cell?
Dolly

37.The Great Red Spot is a gigantic storm located on which planet in our solar system?
Jupiter

38.What do letters in the the acronym SCUBA stand for?
Self-Contained Underwater Breathing Apparatus

39.SpaceX was founded by what South African-born inventor?
Elon Musk

40.186,282 miles per second is the speed of what in a vacuum?
Light

41.What is the name for the unit of measurement of power that is roughly equal to 746 watts?
Horsepower

42.Which American inventor is generally given credit for the invention of the lightning rod?
Benjamin Franklin

43.In humans, what is the only internal organ capable of regenerating lost tissue?
The Liver

44.The reaction where two atoms of hydrogen combine to form an atom of helium is called what?
Fusion

45.What is the name for trees that never lose their leaves?
Evergreen

46.Approximately 2% of all people have what eye color?
Green

47.The atmospheric temperature at which water vapor begins to condense and form dew, is called what?
Dew Point

48.In fluid dynamics, what is the term for the highest attainable speed an object can reach as it falls?
Terminal Velocity

49.What is the unit of length that is approximately 3.26 light-years?
Parsec

50.Who came up with the theories of General and Special relativity?
Albert Einstein
